.TH SHMEM_TEST_ALL 3 "Open Source Software Solutions, Inc." "OpenSHMEM Library Documentation"
./ sectionStart
.SH NAME
shmem_test_all \- 
Indicate whether all variables within an array of variables on the local PE meet a specified test condition.

./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart
.SH   SYNOPSIS
./ sectionEnd

./ sectionStart
.SS C11:

.B int
.B shmem\_test\_all(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I cmp_value
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types specified by
Table 6.
./ sectionStart
.SS C/C++:

.B int
.B shmem\_TYPENAME\_test\_all(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I cmp_value
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types and has a
corresponding TYPENAME specified by Table 6.
./ sectionStart

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments
.BR "IN " -
.I ivars
- Symmetric address of an array of remotely accessible data
objects.
The type of 
.I ivars
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.


.BR "IN " -
.I nelems
- The number of elements in the 
.I ivars
array.


.BR "IN " -
.I status
- Local address of an optional mask array of length 
.I nelems
that indicates which elements in 
.I ivars
are excluded from the test set.


.BR "IN " -
.I cmp
- A comparison operator from Table 13
that compares elements of 
.I ivars
with 
.IR "cmp\_value" .



.BR "IN " -
.I cmp\_value
- The value to be compared with the objects
pointed to by 
.IR "ivars" .
The type of 
.I cmp\_value
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.
./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart

.SS API Description

The 
.B shmem\_test\_all
routine indicates whether all entries in the
test set specified by 
.I ivars
and 
.I status
have satisfied the test
condition at the calling PE. The 
.I ivars
objects at the calling
PE may be updated by an AMO performed by a thread located within
the calling PE or within another PE.
This routine does not block and returns zero if
not all entries in 
.I ivars
satisfied the test condition.
This routine compares each element of the 
.I ivars
array in the
test set with the value 
.I cmp\_value
according to the comparison
operator 
.I cmp
at the calling PE.

If 
.I nelems
is 0, the test set is empty and this routine returns 1.

The optional 
.I status
is a mask array of length 
.I nelems
where each element
corresponds to the respective element in 
.I ivars
and indicates whether
the element is excluded from the test set. Elements of 
.I status
set to
0 will be included in the test set, and elements set to a nonzero value will be ignored. If all elements
in 
.I status
are nonzero or 
.I nelems
is 0, the test set is empty
and this routine returns 0. If 
.I status
is a null pointer, it is
ignored and all elements in 
.I ivars
are included in the test set. The
.I ivars
, 
.I indices
, and 
.I status
arrays must not overlap in
memory.

Implementations must ensure that 
.B shmem\_test\_all
does not return 1
before the update of the memory indicated by 
.I ivars
is fully complete.

./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart

.SS Return Values

.B shmem\_test\_all
returns 1 if all variables in 
.I ivars
satisfy the test condition or if 
.I nelems
is 0, otherwise this routine returns 0.

./ sectionEnd




.SS Table 6:
Standard AMO Types and Names
.TP 25
.B \TYPE
.B \TYPENAME
.TP
int
int
.TP
long
long
.TP
long long
longlong
.TP
unsigned int
uint
.TP
unsigned long
ulong
.TP
unsigned long long
ulonglong
.TP
int32\_t
int32
.TP
int64\_t
int64
.TP
uint32\_t
uint32
.TP
uint64\_t
uint64
.TP
size\_t
size
.TP
ptrdiff\_t
ptrdiff

.SS Table 13:
Point-to-Point Comparison Constants
.TP 25
.B Constant Name
.B Comparison
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_EQ
Equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_NE
Not equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GT
Greater than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GE
Greater than or equal to
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LT
Less than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LE
Less than or equal to
