.TH SHMEM_WAIT_UNTIL_SOME_VECTOR 3 "Open Source Software Solutions, Inc." "OpenSHMEM Library Documentation"
./ sectionStart
.SH NAME
shmem_wait_until_some_vector \- 
Wait on an array of variables on the local PE until at least one
variable meets the its specified wait condition.

./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart
.SH   SYNOPSIS
./ sectionEnd

./ sectionStart
.SS C11:

.B size_t
.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B size_t
.IB "*indices" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I *cmp_values
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types specified by
Table 6.
./ sectionStart
.SS C/C++:

.B size_t
.B shmem\_TYPENAME\_wait\_until\_some\_vector(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B size_t
.IB "*indices" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I *cmp_values
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types and has a
corresponding TYPENAME specified by Table 6.
./ sectionStart

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments
.BR "IN " -
.I ivars
- Symmetric address of an array of remotely accessible data
objects.
The type of 
.I ivars
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.


.BR "IN " -
.I nelems
- The number of elements in the 
.I ivars
array.


.BR "OUT " -
.I indices
- Local address of an array of indices of length at least
.I nelems
into 
.I ivars
that satisfied the wait condition.


.BR "IN " -
.I status
- Local address of an optional mask array of length 
.I nelems
that indicates which elements in 
.I ivars
are excluded from the wait set.


.BR "IN " -
.I cmp
- A comparison operator from Table 13 that
compares elements of 
.I ivars
with elements of 
.IR "cmp\_values" .



.BR "IN " -
.I cmp\_values
- Local address of an array of length 
.I nelems
containing values to be compared with the respective objects in 
.IR "ivars" .
The type of 
.I cmp\_values
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.
./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart

.SS API Description

The 
.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector
routine waits until
at least one entry in the wait set specified by 
.I ivars
and
.I status
satisfies the wait condition at the calling PE.
The 
.I ivars
objects at the calling PE may be updated by an
AMO performed by a thread located within the calling PE or within
another PE.
This routine compares each element of the 
.I ivars
array in the
wait set with each respective value in 
.I cmp\_values
according to the
comparison operator 
.I cmp
at the calling PE. This routine tests
all elements of 
.I ivars
in the wait set at least once, and the order in
which the elements are waited upon is unspecified.

Upon return, the 
.I indices
array contains the indices of at least one
element in the wait set that satisfied the wait condition during the call
to 
.BR "shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector" .
The return value of
.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector
is equal to the total
number of these satisfied elements. For a given return value N, the
first N elements of the 
.I indices
array contain those unique indices
that satisfied the wait condition. These first N elements of
.I indices
may be unordered with respect to the corresponding indices of
.IR "ivars" .
The array pointed to by 
.I indices
must be at least
.I nelems
long. If an entry i in 
.I ivars
within the wait set
satisfies the wait condition, a series of calls to
.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector
must eventually include
i in the 
.I indices
array.

The optional 
.I status
is a mask array of length 
.I nelems
where each
element corresponds to the respective element in 
.I ivars
and indicates
whether the element is excluded from the wait set. Elements of
.I status
set to 0 will be included in the wait set, and elements set to
a nonzero value will be ignored. If all elements in 
.I status
are nonzero or
.I nelems
is 0, the wait set is empty and this routine returns 0.
If 
.I status
is a null pointer, it is ignored
and all elements in 
.I ivars
are included in the wait set. The
.I ivars
, 
.I indices
, and 
.I status
arrays must not overlap in
memory.

Implementations must ensure that 
.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector
does not return before the update of the memory indicated by 
.I ivars
is
fully complete.

./ sectionEnd



./ sectionStart

.SS Return Values

.B shmem\_wait\_until\_some\_vector
returns the number of
indices returned in the 
.I indices
array. If the wait set is empty, this
routine returns 0.

./ sectionEnd




.SS Table 6:
Standard AMO Types and Names
.TP 25
.B \TYPE
.B \TYPENAME
.TP
int
int
.TP
long
long
.TP
long long
longlong
.TP
unsigned int
uint
.TP
unsigned long
ulong
.TP
unsigned long long
ulonglong
.TP
int32\_t
int32
.TP
int64\_t
int64
.TP
uint32\_t
uint32
.TP
uint64\_t
uint64
.TP
size\_t
size
.TP
ptrdiff\_t
ptrdiff

.SS Table 13:
Point-to-Point Comparison Constants
.TP 25
.B Constant Name
.B Comparison
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_EQ
Equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_NE
Not equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GT
Greater than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GE
Greater than or equal to
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LT
Less than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LE
Less than or equal to
