.TH SHMEM_TEST_ANY 3 "Open Source Software Solutions, Inc." "OpenSHMEM Library Documentation"
./ sectionStart
.SH NAME
shmem_test_any \- 
Indicate whether any one variable within an array of variables on the local PE meets a specified test condition.

./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart
.SH   SYNOPSIS
./ sectionEnd

./ sectionStart
.SS C11:

.B size_t
.B shmem\_test\_any(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I cmp_value
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types specified by
Table 6.
./ sectionStart
.SS C/C++:

.B size_t
.B shmem\_TYPENAME\_test\_any(TYPE
.IB "*ivars" ,
.B size_t
.IB "nelems" ,
.B const
.B int
.IB "*status" ,
.B int
.IB "cmp" ,
.B TYPE
.I cmp_value
.B );



./ sectionEnd


where TYPE is one of the standard AMO types and has a
corresponding TYPENAME specified by Table 6.
./ sectionStart

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments
.BR "IN " -
.I ivars
- Symmetric address of an array of remotely accessible data
objects.
The type of 
.I ivars
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.


.BR "IN " -
.I nelems
- The number of elements in the 
.I ivars
array.


.BR "IN " -
.I status
- Local address of an optional mask array of length 
.I nelems
that indicates which elements in 
.I ivars
are excluded from the test set.


.BR "IN " -
.I cmp
- A comparison operator from Table 13
that compares elements of 
.I ivars
with 
.IR "cmp\_value" .



.BR "IN " -
.I cmp\_value
- The value to be compared with the objects
pointed to by 
.IR "ivars" .
The type of 
.I cmp\_value
should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section.
./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart

.SS API Description

The 
.B shmem\_test\_any
routine indicates whether any entry in the
test set specified by 
.I ivars
and 
.I status
has satisfied the test
condition at the calling PE. The 
.I ivars
objects at the calling
PE may be updated by an AMO performed by a thread located within
the calling PE or within another PE.
This routine does not block and returns SIZE\_MAX if
no entries in 
.I ivars
satisfied the test condition.
This routine compares each element of the 
.I ivars
array in the
test set with the value 
.I cmp\_value
according to the comparison
operator 
.I cmp
at the calling PE.
The order in which these elements are tested is
unspecified. If an entry i in 
.I ivars
within the test set satisfies
the test condition, a series of calls to 
.B shmem\_test\_any
must
eventually return i.

The optional 
.I status
is a mask array of length 
.I nelems
where each element
corresponds to the respective element in 
.I ivars
and indicates whether
the element is excluded from the test set. Elements of
.I status
set to 0 will be included in the test set, and elements set to a nonzero value will be ignored. If all
elements in 
.I status
are nonzero or 
.I nelems
is 0, the test set is
empty and this routine returns SIZE\_MAX. If 
.I status
is a
null pointer, it is ignored and all
elements in 
.I ivars
are included in the test set. The 
.I ivars
and
.I status
arrays must not overlap in memory.

Implementations must ensure that 
.B shmem\_test\_any
does not return an
index before the update of the memory indicated by the corresponding
.I ivars
element is fully complete.

./ sectionEnd


./ sectionStart

.SS Return Values

.B shmem\_test\_any
returns the index of an element in the 
.I ivars
array that satisfies the test condition. If the test set is empty or no
conditions in the test set are satisfied, this routine returns SIZE\_MAX.

./ sectionEnd



./ sectionStart
.SS Examples


The following C[11] example demonstrates the use of
.B shmem\_test\_any
to implement a simple linear barrier
synchronization while potentially overlapping communication with
computation.

.nf
#include <shmem.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main(void) {
 shmem_init();
 int mype = shmem_my_pe();
 int npes = shmem_n_pes();

 int *flags = shmem_calloc(npes, sizeof(int));
 int *status = calloc(npes, sizeof(int));

 for (int i = 0; i < npes; i++)
   shmem_atomic_set(&flags[mype], 1, i);

 int ncompleted = 0;
 size_t completed_idx;

 while (ncompleted < npes) {
   completed_idx = shmem_test_any(flags, npes, status, SHMEM_CMP_EQ, 1);
   if (completed_idx != SIZE_MAX) {
     ncompleted++;
     status[completed_idx] = 1;
   }
   else {
     /* Overlap some computation here */
   }
 }

 free(status);
 shmem_free(flags);
 shmem_finalize();
 return 0;
}
.fi




.SS Table 6:
Standard AMO Types and Names
.TP 25
.B \TYPE
.B \TYPENAME
.TP
int
int
.TP
long
long
.TP
long long
longlong
.TP
unsigned int
uint
.TP
unsigned long
ulong
.TP
unsigned long long
ulonglong
.TP
int32\_t
int32
.TP
int64\_t
int64
.TP
uint32\_t
uint32
.TP
uint64\_t
uint64
.TP
size\_t
size
.TP
ptrdiff\_t
ptrdiff

.SS Table 13:
Point-to-Point Comparison Constants
.TP 25
.B Constant Name
.B Comparison
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_EQ
Equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_NE
Not equal
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GT
Greater than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_GE
Greater than or equal to
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LT
Less than
.TP
SHMEM_CMP_LE
Less than or equal to
